- [Instructor] Up until now, you might be thinking,
do I need to use a terminal and start learning AWS commands,
just to be able to build a simple AWS lambda?
You could use AWS CLI and a web console to configure and
deploy serverless apps.
However, with AWS toolkit,
it makes it much easier to manage serverless apps straight
from ID with no prior AWS experience.
Start with source code,
and the toolkit will do all the heavy lifting for us.
When it comes to building serverless applications.
It takes care of identification,
debug and run configurations, deployment,
empowering you to spend more time focusing on your code.
It also gives you access to cloudWatch logs,
through the ID, which can be helpful when troubleshooting,
and you can explore other AWS resources
with a built in Explorer.
Amazon also has its own ID called Cloud9,
which is hosted on Amazon, easy to instance,
and you can write, run and debug straight from your browser.
And it already has everything itself.
Here we will be focusing on setting up AWS toolkit with
IntelliJ.
There is also a toolkit available for Eclipse.
If that is the ID of your choice,
check out instructions at aws.amazon.com/eclipse.
AWS toolkit requires installation of AWS CLI,
Docker to debug and run local serverless apps
and AWS SAM CLI,
which is short for serverless application model CLI
as prerequisite.
Assuming you already have AWS CLI, Docker and
IntelliJ installed. Let's set up our plugin and install SAM.
First open IntelliJ,
head off to preferences plugins,
and search for "AWS toolkit".
Once installed, go ahead and let your ID restart.
Notice that on the left side,
we have a new tab called "AWS Explorer" and at the bottom
"AWS configuration settings".
First, we need to connect to our AWS account.
If you have already done the setup
using AWS configure command,
then the toolkit can already use credentials
from that configuration.
If not,
click on AWS,
no credential selected
and choose "edit credentials file".
Click on "create".
In the file, under default,
for AWS access key ID and AWS secret access key,
replace it with the values key and secret
you have obtained while creating an IM development user.
Save and close the file,
and now, click on "region" and choose the default profile.
You should now see AWS resources listed in the AWS Explorer.
Since I don't have anything deployed yet,
all resources are empty.
In order to create our first lambda function,
we need to have SAM installed.
SAM is an open source framework for building serverless
applications, allowing you to model functions, APIs,
databases, and more, using few short lines.
SAM is an extension of cloud formation used to speed up
cloud set up with infrastructure as a code.
If we don't install SAM,
we would need to upload our code and set up all
configuration manually.
SAM requires a Docker container to provide a local
environment that is similar to the AWS lambda environment,
so you can run and debug lambda locally,
make sure to have Docker installed, and check that it is
running by executing "Docker PS" command.
Next, let's install SAM, since I'm using a Mac,
the easiest way is to use home brew.
If you're using windows or Linux,
please check the tutorial on AWS resources.
Type in "brew tap aws/tap",
and then, "brew install aws-sam-cli".
SAM is now installed,
which means we can start with our first exercise.